As most of you know, 18xx games are often played via Email, 
usually using a spread sheet and the CyberBoard program.

CyberBoard is a general purpose game board program that runs
on each players computer. It generates and accepts move files
that synchronize the various players copies of the game file.

I have some problems with CyberBoard and the current style 
of remote play.  To address these problems I have decided to 
develop an alternative to this current arrangement.

This is my first report on the progress that I have made to
date. I will outline two things here: my long term vision and
my mid term plan. And then I will share with you a mock-up
of part of my program which I am calling Game18. 

Long term:

Game18 will be an interactive web application which is specific 
to 18xx style games. It will handle both the spreadsheet and 
the board display functions of the current PBEM paradigm. It
will be open source and new game boxes should be easy to add.

Mid term:

The first part of Game18 [Board18?] will, like CyberBoard, be 
limited to game board functions. A spreadsheet will still be 
needed when using it.  It will not enforce any rules but will
make it easy to place and remove tiles and tokens on a game 
board. It will track the progress of games and may have some
history review functions.

Current:

I have currently achieved a mock-up of this mid term goal. It
has no server side functionality and does not handle tokens yet.

I have used 1826 as my sample game. I picked it for no strong 
reason. I have not done the graphics for any other games.

To play with this mock-up, go to http://www.gandalf.ws/game18/

Clicking on a tray causes the tiles in that tray appear.
Clicking on a tile selects the tile for placement.
Clicking on a board position places the selected tile there.
Clicking on a just placed tile rotates it.  
Rotation can also be done using the rotation buttons. 
Clicking the add button makes the tile placement permanent.
Clicking the reset button removes non permanent tiles.
The submit button has no function at present.
A number of other things are also missing. 
. There is no way to remove a permanent tile
. No count is kept of the number of tiles remaining.

But it is a start. Please let me know what you think.

If you are interested in participating in the development
of Game18 then please contact me ASAP.

Thanks, Rich
